---
description: Student Guide to JupyterHub for Physisc70 at Brown
---

# JupyterHub for  Physics 70

Welcome to your Getting Started Guide for JupyterHub. Your JupyterHub is designed to provide an environment to run Jupyter Notebooks for Python without the need to install any software or packages. JupyterHub is interacted with completely through a web browser. This service is a collaboration supported by various teams in CIS.

## What Do You Get with your Hub?

On the Brown JupyterHub, each user is provided their own persistent working directory and compute resource allocation unique from each other user. This means the environment you are provided is only accessible by yourself and CIS support staff.

Once connected to your server, you are provided an isolated workspace where you can write and run code. There are no time limit restrictions or specified lockout times, so please feel free to use your personal JupyterHub notebook server anytime you want and adhere to [CCV's Computing Policies](https://docs.ccv.brown.edu/jupyterhub/computing-policy)

## What are Jupyter Notebooks \(excerpt from Jupyter's official documentation\)

The Jupyter Notebook is an **interactive computing environment** that enables users to author notebook documents that include:

* Live code
* Interactive widgets
* Plots
* Narrative text
* Equations
* Images
* Video

Notebook documents contain the **inputs and outputs** of an interactive session as well as **narrative text** that accompanies the code but is not meant for execution. **Rich output** generated by running code, including HTML, images, video, and plots, is embedded in the notebook, which makes it a complete and self-contained record of a computation.

When you run the notebook web application on your computer, notebook documents are just **files on your local filesystem with a `.ipynb` extension**. This allows you to use familiar workflows for organizing your notebooks into folders and sharing them with others.

Notebooks consist of a **linear sequence of cells**. There are four basic cell types:

* **Code cells:** Input and output of live code that is run in the kernel
* **Markdown cells:** Narrative text with embedded LaTeX equations
* **Heading cells:** 6 levels of hierarchical organization and formatting
* **Raw cells:** Unformatted text that is included, without modification, when notebooks are converted to different formats using nbconvert

## 

